Next up we'll talk about a couple of different properties that I'm just grouping together their properties
that we can directly access on individual elements.
So let's start with a simple example.
When we have a form if we want to retrieve the text in a form input or the values from a form we have
an attribute on those elements called value.
So if I go to my form here I have a couple of different inputs.
I'm also going to add an input with type equal to checkbox and let's do another input with type set
to range and we'll give it a Men of one hundred and a max of 500 so we have a couple of different inputs.
We'll save.
Now let's select one of them or all of them.
Why don't we do all of them.
Sure.
So we'll do a refresh of the page first and then document that query selector all this time or we could
have done get elements by tag name but I'm going to do query selector.
All input and save that to a variable cost inputs and let's take a look at one of these inputs.
So I'll just print the whole thing out or return the value and open one up.
If we scroll down there is a property Down Under V called value and it's currently empty.
But if I fill in a bear name like talk over the bear and we do the same thing again I'll have to rerun
this.
I'll look at inputs one more time or are actually let's just do inputs to zero dot value you'll see
it's now taco.
So value is how I can get the value out of this form.
Same thing with a password input.
If I do inputs of one dollar value yes I do have access to that text in the password input.
Those dots are not there for real security purposes they're there to hide the password from other people
but it's not there to hide the password from your code.
It needs to be sent to it in a request usually to a server somewhere.
So that value has to remain.
So we have input one dot value we got the password value out of there.
Now what about a checkbox.
If I do inputs of two dot value we get on and if I check it it's still on what's going on here.
So let's look at inputs of two
How annoying.
If I specifically called one out it does the HMO representation.
If I look at all inputs and I go to the index of two and we scroll down you'll see we have a different
property called checked.
So this is a different property we can use for checkboxes specifically so we get checked as false.
So I'll close that back up and we can do inputs to dot checked.
So this video is like I said kind of just a group of attributes that we can access.
So these are HMO attributes because I can change a value from age to amount if I want there to be a
value in the form when it loads.
I could say value equals what would be a good name for a bear.
Talk of the Bear Grylls the bear.
How much is Buck Bubba.
I'll refresh the page and that value is in there and if I read selects the inputs and I look at inputs
of 0 9 0 dot value it set to Bubba and I can change it to and this is a common thing we actually do
not usually to change the input to be something else like plus equals Bubba the bear probably wouldn't
do something like this with code and change someone's input although it's possible maybe you're doing
some sort of fancy input where as the user types you're adding spacing in or you're validating it or
I don't know but usually the way that we change the input value is to reset it to an empty string.
So if the user submitted the form and we captured the information with JavaScript by extracting the
values and then we do something with it which we haven't talked about yet and events and all that stuff
to come then afterwards we might reset it to an empty string.
So it goes back to an empty input.
Think of a search bar you go in to read it or something or I don't know if some web that has a single
page search if you type something in you hit enter you see some new stuff load and your search bar usually
empties out.
Not all searches do that anyway.
Sometimes we can reset the input if we want to by setting its value to an empty string.
If we go back to this checkbox again we saw that if we check it and we do inputs of two dot value it
doesn't change but if we do inputs of two dot checked we now get true.
If I uncheck it we get false.
So that's how we can use javascript to read out the value from text inputs password inputs or read out
the checked state of a checkbox.
What about this slider.
This range goes from one hundred to 500 I think.
And if we do inputs of three dot value it's giving us 130.
If I go up it's 437.
Right now it's set so that the step of the range is 1 I believe the default.
But if we give it a step of 50 and refresh run our code again just select all the inputs and then we
take a look at inputs three dot value it's three hundred and I'm now stepping by 50 at a time.
So we do it one more time it's now 450.
Okay so that is value and checked.
There is one other attribute that we have direct access to on each element on each input element at
least which is place holder I can change placeholder text.
Really not that common but right now the place holder of this password input says password.
If I select that input which is in my list of inputs from query selector all it has index of no index
of 1.
If I do place holder I can retrieve the current placeholder text or I could change it to something else.
Place holder equals please enter password and there's my placeholder text it's been updated all right.
So that's how we can work with inputs.
We also have a couple other attributes that we can directly access off of elements.
Let's add an anchor tag in somewhere in my HMO.
It doesn't really matter where I'll put an anchor tag and give it an A TRIP OF CATS dot com slash cute
and then some text in here.
Cats are adorable sometimes.
Refresh my page.
Let's select that anchor tag so I'll do a query selector of a need to add my document that query selector
save that to a variable.
Call it a and let's look at a dot a trip.
There we go.
Notice.
Well this is my fault.
I did a relative link I didn't actually add in w w w dot and a protocol so we end up with the file protocol.
That's where I am viewing this file from.
But if instead I add an H TTP colon slash slash www.youtube.com slash.
Cute.
Run it again.
Select it.
Here we go.
Now it's a link to a Web site that may or may not exist.
I'm probably not going to click it and I can also change the link if I wanted to.
To now be HDP call and slash slash w w w dot google dot com and if we look at that element I'll just
inspected.
Where are you all the way down here.
We changed that a trip and now goes to Google and if I clicked it it would take me to Google dot com
assuming I didn't misspell anything.
So that's another H Timo attribute we have access to.
If you're not familiar with the term attribute by the way it's these things here where we have some
word equals something in quotes.
Usually it follows that pattern.
Class is an attribute idea is an attribute source it's an attribute ult on an image is an attribute.
And for some of these attributes we have this access like directly on the object for value on an input
as we saw for a trough and on images we can access the source.
So if I wanted to change this image source to something else let me get a new image I'll be right back.
I have a Euro on my clipboard now and if I want to select this image and change it I can easily change
the source.
There is a source attribute so we'll select the image with good old document that query selector of
image.
That's the type of tag we want.
There's only one on the page so we'll get the one and only one save it to a variable and let's take
a look at image source.
There's the U.R.L. that the image is currently displaying.
If I update it to this you are all I have on my clipboard.
There we go.
New image.
Very cute little cat under a blanket.
So that's uh that's kind of it.
We have these different attributes that we can access directly through the DOM.
We'll see in the next video that we have some attributes that we can't access that way.
And we have a different mechanism or a different way of changing them and reading them in so that's
coming up next.